"Regularity" from *10 PRINT CHR$(205.5+RND(1)); : GOTO 10* by Nick Monfort et. al

For me, a few points stood out in this exploration of the use of regularity across time and space to explore and perturb iterative processes.

First, I was struck by the emphasis on iterative processes for their own sake. That is, the output itself could be viewed as a work of art as well as the procedure to create it or even iterations leading up to it that indicate the process are just as important because the signify the process itself. Any exploration in the aforementioned categories could be formalist (assessed on the basis of form alone) or understood more subjectively. I am at a loss to say which aspect of the pipeline is more prevalent or ought to be -- perhaps as is suggested in the reading it is whichever aspect that evokes gestalt.

Secondly, during the discussion of the primacy of loops in computer programs (e.g. the main loop comprises the body of the program) I kept thinking of rendering systems. An image is created by generating an approximate solution to the rendering equation. Light transport must be determined by sampling radiance along random "paths" of light (since there are an infinite number of paths) and then synthesizing that estimate to approximate the ground truth of the scene being rendered. This random process is conducted repeatedly to yield an estimate of a ground truth. Denoisers are used to coalesce the samples strategically to preserve detail and create an image that is closest to the ground truth. The act of vision is itself a repetitive process based on approximation. Maybe work that signifies iterative processes are so intriguing because they signify the act of seeing and the vast possibilities that might unfold with respect to our perception.

Finally, processes seem to only have generative value if there is room for modulation or exploration beyond simple repetition, and the value in generative work seems to derive from the unexpected. Whether or not that entails the discovery of some original composition or the satisfaction of admiring a fully explored space is not important, but it does make me question the manner in which rules / programs / conventions should be applied. That is, there must be some expected result that is either surpassed or defied by the outcome.
