
### *Cybernetics, Art, and Ideas* by Jasia Reichardt

Reichardt's introduction to the 1968 exhibition Cybernetic Serendipity at the Institute of Contemporary Arts justifies its significant features and discusses perception of computer based art amongst the public and in art theory.

With respect to the exhibition, one of the intentional aspects of the design that Reichardt notes is the fact that visitors are unable to discern the origin of works through labeling. This prompts them to explore different pieces without making assumptions about their nature as a created artworks. I think this way to perceive artwork is controversial because it risks discounting intent and context. Sometimes, as Reichardt later implies, the motivating idea is just as significant as the result itself although perhaps this ought to be wholly present in the completed work.

Some of her observations were startling because they have persisted almost unchanged today. These include the notion that technological tools have enabled others to participate in creating art for the enjoyment of the process and the idea that an experimental work involving technology and art may be remarkable because it indicates future possibilities for what may be achieved.

One point I disagreed with strongly involved the discussion of the credibility of what is achievable with a machine. I believe that, in spite of the extent to which someone is exposed to technology, a person can always be surprised by what can be achieved or created with it.

While Reichardt introduces several theories for how computers may be used in the art making process, I also disagree with the extent to which she includes processes involving technology. For example, even though I understand their inclusion in an exhibition of this nature, I don't think that a process that is simply informed by borrowing technological terms to encapsulate an idea such as a random process without the explicit use or contribution of a machine counts as computational art.

Overall, Reichardt is more interested with introducing the multitudinous avenues for connecting creativity and technology. However she also implies and I concur that perspectives concerning the role and application of technological arts are perhaps only valid in their multiplicity.

### "Symbols" from *Abstracting Craft* by Malcom McCullough

Malcom McCullough explains how symbol systems leverage abstract thinking and permit greater complexity. Because symbols, code, or more broadly speaking conventions demarcate expressivity, they define and enable it. His discussion ranges from the development of human language to computer programming. He observes that machines can't yet interpret visual images (89), but I think we're at the cusp of an expansion of machine understanding. So perhaps his idea of the limit of symbolic processing that is achievable needs to be extended. For example, when McCullough was describing David Gelertner's posited "relation between focused reasoning and free association" (109), I was reminded of how more complex neural network architectures that now use skip connections. Also, I strongly agree with McCullough's idea that it is detrimental to be limited to either end of this spectrum. Perhaps, even beyond computer based arts, technological tools for creating artwork can be modified with this idea in mind to create more fluidity between focus and association.

Throughout the reading I was reminded of a project I worked on to create a domain specific language -- a mini-programming language for a niche application -- for dance choreography and historiography. The whole exercise consisted of deciding what symbol system to create to encapsulate key abstractions. The work required creatively iterating upon semantics and syntax as each influenced the other in turn. I think what I encountered was McCullough's idea that working on visual computing systems requires both computational work and creative intentionality in approach and process.

>"If in essence consciousness is natural, and neither we nor our technology should ignore it, then more advanced conditions of design computing should differ from algorithmic, industrial machine operation precisely by reflectivity and intent" (108)

> "Digital craft is to will some sort of reflective consciousness in the practice of habitual computer-based work. It is to use the phenomena of tools, media, artifacts, and settings as means for focusing that consciousness. It is to cultivate contextual awareness" (108)

Another question I want to raise is whether or not humans intuitively grasp abstractions or "symbol systems." If this is the case, then why do many people struggle with learning computer science? Almost everyone has to learn the idea of object-oriented design and finds it challenging at first.


Furthermore, I think machine learning extends to cover some of aspects of reasoning that McCullough suggests are limited to people. Consider the statement "human learning is by example, by context, and by intent but not necessarily by rules" (106). Large neural nets learn very complex decision boundaries over an extremely high dimensional space by being exposed to many examples often across context. Of course, there are limitations but increasingly distributions of input and outcome spaces are used in creative ways to expand possibilities. Consider NVIDIA's unsupervised image-to-image translation project. In order to create more diverse simulated environments to train self-driving car models, a team created a way to transform existing image and video data of roads in one type of weather to another to varying degrees. I don't understand the certainty that human learning at some level does not work like this. This idea resurfaces in the discussion of the "biological naturalism" framework that McCullough notes was outlined by John Searle in 1992 in *The Rediscovery of the Mind*. McCullough claims Searle and other philospher-biologists "uphold reflectivity, imagination, and contextual appropriateness as practicable but unknowable"(107)? I think recent work with generative adversarial networks (GANs) challenges that position.

Finally, McCullough introduces the terms "autgraphic" and "allographic" to define works of such a nature that there is either an individual and original instance or multiple instances are possible, respectively (94). He observes that generative computation can make "some autographic media allographic" (100). I think it's also worth noting that some allographic media can become autographic. Imagine Feuillet notation -- a 17th century notation used for ballet -- that encodes a dance. In spite of the details encapsulated, there are limits to the abstraction and a performance of that dance constitutes a singular and irreplicable instance. This connects to McCullough's discussion on authorship that maybe needs to be contested or co-attributed.
