### "Design as Exploration: Creating Interface Alternatives through Parallel Authoring and Runtime Tuning" by Hartmann et al.

The idea of working on parallel prototypes initially made me question why the same thing couldn't be achieved by using a git workflow (branches for different possibilities). This approach facilitates side-by-side visual comparisons across multiple modalities. I think it would be exciting to be able to work on my code in the same way (i.e. edit a file in two different branches in the same editor viewing window) and might help me make more efficient decisions. I am less certain about the added benefit of being able to adjust parameters, namely numbers and booleans, while looking at a graphical user interface. Finally, I think the overarching idea, that this project is "the first step towards integrated authoring environment that offers management of alternatives across graphics and code" is compelling (96).

### Design Galleries: A General Approach to Setting Parameters for Computer Graphics and Animation" by Marks et al.

This work presents a way for programmers and artists to explore a full parameter space. However, I think the outcomes are limited by what the authors note in the discussion. Namely, they discuss how labor intensive it is to formulate and implement and output vector which must be carefully designed in each application. There is significant overhead involved to create a design gallery in different contexts. Another point that bothered me was that for complex systems or visual output many parameters may be tuned. And while think the multidimensional scaling used to create a thumbnail embedding shows clustering, I don't think that it would be easy to navigate in a way that's intuitive to the user. Overall, this framework is compelling because it is generalizable and offers a solution positioned in between interactive evolution and inverse design.
